Development

In the beginning of this course, we declared which team member has which main responsiblilty.
Thus, 2 were responsible for the front-end, and the other 2 for the back-end.
This allowed our team members to mainly specialize, and therefore be more efficient in coding.
E.g. while the back-end team implemented the stand function, the front-end could implement the buttons
at the same time, so that the final test could be more intuitive. 
But of course, there was a lot of cross sectional work, too, because often times we had
to identify which part of the system, the GUI or Logic, did not work correctly, so the synergy of front and back end was
very important for us.


dev env:

All of our members used the IntelliJ IDE, because it covers all aspects of the XDM Stack.
It has a fully fledged support of the XQuery language as well as XSL, HTML, CSS and also
version control via git. This allowed our team members to always be up to date, clearly see changes
someone made and overall improve communication and workflows. 

Basically, the full stack could be easily implemented via intelliJ, which came in very handy for us,
because of our sectioning of the workflow in front- end back-end.


Reflection


Overall, the structure of the course was very thoughful organized, while also providing very
helpful coaching. Even with the current limitations caused by the corona virus, the instructors
adapted very quickly, by utilizing software such as zoom, to allow us to be within the schedule.

In conclusion, this was a very interesting experience, to be able to implement a full web app
from scratch, using solely the XDM Languages, which forced us to broaden our horizon and thinking
patterns. The fact that the semantics of the app was based on BlackJack made it even more interesting.
Prof. Brügemann-Klein and Mr. Ulrich were always ready to help and provide further materials in case
you wanted to go further in details and functionality. Basically, the whole experience can be summed up
as flexible, interesting, and challenging.
